							 General Design Document for Otherside

Logline :
	Task-based puzzle-platformer game using 3D graphics and a first person perspective
		with a focus on emphasizing movement in its puzzles. Aestethically, it holds a light-hearted retro 
		tone accented by monstrous entities augmented with various graphical effects to 
		create mystique and terror.

Design Pillars :
	Fluid :
		From movement transitions to UI elements, a primary focus of the game is to ensure that
			animations mesh well and are not jarring to the eye. This gives the game a "polished"
			feel and helps make the game feel more competent and complete as a whole.
	
	Visual :
		The game's primary show of uniqueness is in how it represents the world around it by
			the use of visual effects. Tools like dithering and aliasing/anti-aliasing are used
			to describe texture, while the status of items or the nature of monsters may be
			represented by more unconventional techniques, like pixel sorting. 

	Simple :
		The game's core loop is simple, dealing only with the core essentials of what it means
			to be a video game. This means that the player is given a goal, the tools to achieve
			that goal, and not much else: no side quests, no easter eggs, no non-essential content.
			Failure to achieve this goal could prove fatal for completing the project on time.

Core Gameplay Loop :
	The player begins a round. They are given a list of tasks to complete before a time limit runs out.
		These tasks are spread around the map which the player spawned in, and they must all
		available tools at their disposal in order to successfuly complete their tasks.

	As the player is completing tasks, more entities/obstacles spawn into the map, making the
		player's objective increasingly more difficult to accomplish. Note that this is based on
		how many tasks have been completed, NOT the time remaining in the round.

	The player completes all of their tasks and is given a position. The player must be at that position
		within a small amount of time, or they will not leave the map alive. While dying on the
		way to evacuating does not mean they lost the round, it does decrease their score by a significant
		percentage.

	The player either wins, wins and fails to evacuate, or dies. They are then given their score.
		(Time permitting, there may be an in-game global leaderboard for the player to compare
		their scores against others.) The loop then begins again.

Features :
	Aberration :
		The player is able to "aberrate" into an alternate dimension. In this dimension, the player
			character's physical energy manifests as a demoness-like creature, with multiple arms
			and unnatural mobility and strength. While in this alternate dimension, the screen
			will be defiled with myriad amounts of sever filters, making playing primarily in this
			mode nauseating and undesirable, but at the same time also very mesmerizing. Objects
			of interest and entities will be highlighted, and the player will more "sense" where
			to go by navigating towards these beacons, rather than trying to understand all of 
			what they are seeing like they would in a normal first person game. 

		While in this alternate dimension, the player character's increased strength and mobility
			allows them to destroy certain barriers and cross certain gaps, which the player otherwise
			would not be able to overcome. This makes the demoness powers useful for more than 
			just bashing the occasional enemy: aberrating from the normal dimension to the
			alternate dimension is a useful and commonly necesarry tool that the player must learn
			to adapt to.

	Tuck and Roll :
		The player doesn't have any forms of offense outside of the demoness attack (which is geared
			more towards destroying stationary objects, so it isn't the best for use in combat),
			which means that the majority of the time the player will be avoiding, rather than
			creating, damaging attacks. To help with this, the player has a swift dodge in the
			normal dimension. The player cannot be damaged from projectils while in the dodge animation. 
			However, if they collide with an enemy, they will take damage and be completely stationary
			for an number of seconds.

		While in the alternate dimension, the player can still dodge, but it is slightly different:
			the player moves slightly slower AND, if they collide with an enemy, that enemy will
			be damaged and immobilized instead of them. In the alternate dimension, the player
			can also double jump and dash while in the air. While useful for dodging enemy attacks,
			it can also be used for platforming.

	Tasks :
		The main objective (and also one of the major threats) for the player is the completion
			of tasks. Tasks are placed about the map and function in the same way as tasks work in
			Amogus; the screen is almost entirely occupied by the window which the task is in,
			and the player must focus on completing the task as quickly as possible, because they
			are still vulnerable to enemies while completing it. Notably, the player will ALWAYS
			have to address tasks while in the normal dimension, meaning they do not benefit from
			the abilities of the demoness powers during this critical period. 

		As mentioned previously, whenever the player completes a task, the environment as a whole
			becomes more dangerous. This is a critical aspect of the game, and helps give
			each round a Helldivers-like pacing of increasingly frenetic action and rising stakes
			as the player attempts to finish their mission.

	Traps and the Environment :
		Most maps are usually laden with difficult traps that the player must navigate through or
			around. However, these traps can be activated to target enemies instead. This can be used
			to give the player breathing room while they attempt complete a difficult task. However,
			note that the traps take time and concetration to be rewired, just like the traps (the
			demands on the player are just far lower.)

		The environment also changes as the player completes tasks. Bridges may recede, doors may lock,
			and turrets or traps will activate as the player continues, making the environment
			more dangerous as the entities become more frantic.

Narrative :
	The setting of the game is a galactic "dark-age;" after science goes awry in a galactic research
		station orbiting a black hole, a gravitational ripple of unmeasurable power rips apart all living
		beings. Most are reduced to undead ghosts, caught between dimensions, terrorizing those who
		remain. The ones who survived the wave, however, are now capable of aberrating between
		the familiar dimension of physical existence and a nightmarish, hell-like realm where raw
		energy and thought can manifest into reality.

	These survivors are now scavengers, excavating old relics of ships long dead in order to secure
		the resources they need to survive on the myriad colonies spread throughout the galaxy. The
		player character is one of these innumerable scavengers, fighting desperately to scrap out
		precious components and data in order to keep her small ship functioning, as the energies
		permeating the long dead ships become increasingly aware of her presence.
